# verb_cohortative Article
The cohortative form looks very similar to an imperfect form but functions in the sentence more like an imperative.  Cohortative verbs appear only in 1st person forms.  [Similarly, imperatives appear only in 2nd person forms, and jussives usually appear in 3rd person forms.]  A cohortative verb does not carry the full force of a command ("We *must* do this!"), but it conveys a stronger meaning than a simple suggestion or statement of possibilty ("We *could* do this.").  The meaning is somewhere in the middle.  In English, a cohortative is often translated with a helping verb such as "let" or "want" or "will," depending on the context (*"Let us do this!"* or *"I want to do this!"*).  Thus, the cohortative verb functions as an indirect command; the reader must examine the context to determine the strength of desirability being expressed in each specific instance.

The negation particle אַל is always used to express a negative cohortative in Biblical Hebrew, never לֹא.  Thus, the use of the particle אַל with a cohortative does not reflect any specific nuance of meaning, as it does with certain imperfect and jussive forms.


The cohortative form can indicate any of the following kinds of actions:

#### Indirect commands

* ISA 2:5
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>בֵּ֖ית יַעֲקֹ֑ב לְכ֥וּ וְנֵלְכָ֖ה בְּא֥וֹר יְהוָֽה</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>beit ya'akov; lechu venelechah be'or hashem</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>House of Jacob, come and *let us walk* in the light of Yahweh.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>House of Jacob, come, and *let us walk* in the light of Yahweh.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
 
#### Actions of greater or lesser desirability
These may include instructions, requests, permissions, invitations, assurances, wishes, etc.

* JER 40:15 
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>אֵ֤לְכָה נָּא֙ וְאַכֶּה֙ אֶת־יִשְׁמָעֵ֣אל בֶּן־נְתַנְיָ֔ה</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>elechah na ve'akkeh et-yishma'el ben-netanyah</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>*Let me go* [exhortation particle] and I will kill [direct object marker] Ishmael son of Nethaniah...</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>*Allow me to go* kill Ishmael son of Nethaniah.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

* EXO 3:3
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וַיֹּ֣אמֶר מֹשֶׁ֔ה אָסֻֽרָה־נָּ֣א וְאֶרְאֶ֔ה</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>vayomer mosheh, asurah-na ve'er'eh</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>And Moses said, *Let me turn aside* [exhortation particle] and *let me see*...</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>Moses said, "*I will turn aside and see*..."</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

* PSA 25:2
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>אֱלֹהַ֗י בְּךָ֣ בָ֭טַחְתִּי אַל־אֵב֑וֹשָׁה</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>elohai, becha vatachti al-'evoshah</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>My God, in you I trust, not *let me be ashamed*...</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>My God, I trust in you. *Do not let me be humiliated*;...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


----------------------------------

*Information in this article is taken from* Biblical Hebrew Reference Grammar, *by van der Merwe, Naudé, and Kroeze, p.151-152; and* Hebrew Grammar, *by Gesenius, section 108.*