# stem_niphal Article
The Niphal stem is a verbal [stem](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/stem/02.md) formation in Biblical Hebrew, indicated by a נ prefix (with shewa) to the [verb](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/verb/02.md). The Niphal stem is extremely flexible in its use in Biblical Hebrew.  Generally speaking, the Niphal stem expresses passive action; but it can also [adjectival](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/adjective/02.md) express reflexive, reciprocal, repetitive, stative, or even simple action, depending on the context and the specific verb.  Some verbs express passive action in the Niphal stem; some verbs express reflexive action in the Niphal stem; for some verbs, the Niphal stem might express either passive action or reflexive action, depending on the context; and so on.

NOTE: It is recommended to always consult a dictionary or lexicon for the specific meaning of the Niphal stem for any verb, because the Niphal stem expresses different kinds of action for various verbs.

### Form

**[paradigm]**

### Function

The Niphal stem can express any of the following kinds of verbal action:

#### Expresses passive action
Passive action means that the subject of the verb is *receiving* the action rather than *performing* the action. In English, passive action is expressed using the helping verb "to be."  In Biblical Hebrew, the passive nature of the verbal action is expressed by the Niphal form of the verb itself without any helping verbs.

* 2KI 21:18
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וַיִּקָּבֵ֥ר בְּגַן־בֵּית֖וֹ</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>wayyiqqaver began-betho</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>and he was buried in the garden of his house</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>and he was buried in the garden of his own house</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses reflexive action
Reflexive action means that the subject of the verb is *both* performing *and* receiving the action. In English, reflexive action is expressed using a reflexive pronoun as the object of the verb, "I tell *myself*".  In Biblical Hebrew, the reflexive nature of the verbal action is expressed by the Niphal form of the verb itself without any additional words.

* ISA 1:24
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>אֶנָּחֵ֣ם מִצָּרַ֔י וְאִנָּקְמָ֖ה מֵאוֹיְבָֽי׃</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>'ennahem mitsaray we'innoqmah me'oyevay</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>I will take vengance on my adversaries, and I will avenge myself on my enemies</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>I will take vengeance against my adversaries, and avenge myself against my enemies</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses reciprocal action
Reciprocal action means that multiple subjects are in view who are both performing the action for another and receiving the action from another.  In English, reciprocal action is expressed using the phrase "each other" as the object of the verb, "They tell each other."  In Biblical Hebrew, the reciprocal nature of the action is expressed by the Niphal form of the verb itself without any additional words.  

Reciprocal action must be distinguished from reflexive action.  The phrase "They tell themselves" is reflexive: the subject "they" is a unified group and the action could be expressed reflexively for each individual as "he tells himself, and he tells himself, and she tells herself, etc."  The phrase "They tell each other" is reciprocal: each member of the group is telling something to another member of the group, and each member of the group is being told something by another member of the group.

* 2KI 3:23
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>נֶֽחֶרְבוּ֙ הַמְּלָכִ֔ים</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>nehervu hammelakhim</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>they have killed each other the kings</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>the kings have killed each other</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses simple action
In Biblical Hebrew, some verbs express different meanings in different stem formations.  A good example is the Hebrew verb רָאָה.  In the Qal stem, the verb רָאָה expresses the simple action "to seֶe".  But in the Niphal stem, the verb רָאָה expresses the simple action "to appear".  The lexicon will indicate the different meanings for these verbs in the various stem formations.

* 2KI 3:23
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>נֶֽחֶרְבוּ֙ הַמְּלָכִ֔ים</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>nehervu hammelakhim</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>they have killed each other the kings</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>the kings have killed each other</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses repetitive action



#### Expresses stative action





## [Adjectival](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/adjective/02.md)
The verb functions like an adjective.

* LEV 11:34
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>מִכָּל־הָאֹ֜כֶל אֲשֶׁ֣ר יֵאָכֵ֗ל</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>mikkol-ha'okhel 'asher ye'akhel</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>Of all the food that is edible</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>All the food that is permitted to be eaten</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Middle
When in English a verb is passive, but the object that receives the action is also (partially) involved in the action taking place.

* GEN 3:5
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וְנִפְקְח֖וּ עֵֽינֵיכֶ֑ם</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>wenifqehu 'enekhem</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>and will be opened your eyes</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>your eyes will be opened</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
	
* JOB 26:8
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וְלֹא־נִבְקַ֖ע עָנָ֣ן</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>welo-nivqa' 'anan</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>and they are not torn clouds</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>but the clouds are not torn</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
	
* EZK 1:1
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>נִפְתְּחוּ֙ הַשָּׁמַ֔יִם</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>niftehu hashamayim</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>Were opened the heavens</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>The heavens were opened</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Denominative
When a [noun](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/noun/02.md) is turned into a [verb](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/verb/02.md).

* GEN 16:2
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>אוּלַ֥י אִבָּנֶ֖ה מִמֶּ֑נָּה</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>'ulay 'ibbaneh mimmennah</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>Perhaps I will build by her.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>It may be that I will have children by her.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The verb "build"/"have children" comes from the noun for "son/child".