:github_url: https://git.door43.org/Door43/en_uhg/src/branch/master/content/adjective.rst

.. _adjective:

Adjective
=========

Summary
-------

An adjective is a word that describes another word in the sentence,
usually a noun. In Biblical Hebrew, an adjective can sometimes function
as an adverb or even as a noun.

Article
-------

In Bibical Hebrew, adjectives always match the noun they describe in
gender
(:ref:`gender_masculine`
or
:ref:`gender_feminine`)
and number
(:ref:`number_singular`
or
:ref:`number_plural`).
However, there are some exceptions to this rule. If a noun is
:ref:`number_dual`,
its accompanying adjective will be plural. Also, the gender of some
nouns does not match their apparent form (as in נָשִׁים "women", which is
grammatically-feminine although it appears grammatically-masculine); in
these cases, an accompanying adjective will match the gender of the noun
itself rather than the apparent form. Similarly, if a noun is collective
(as in עַם, meaning "people") or if a plural noun refers to one person
(as in אֱלֹהִים, meaning "God"), the accompanying adjective may match
the implied number rather than the apparent form.

Form
----

The forms of the adjective closely resemble the forms of the
:ref:`noun_common`.

Paradigm
~~~~~~~~

.. csv-table:: Adjective Paradigm
  :header-rows: 1

  Parsing,Hebrew,Transliteration,Gloss
  masculine singular absolute,טוֹב,tov,good
  masculine singular construct,טוֹב,tov,good
  masculine singular determined,הַטּוֹב,hattov,the good
  feminine singular absolute,טוֹבָה,tovah,good
  feminine singular construct,טוֹבַת,tovath,good
  feminine singular determined,הַטּוֹבָה,hattovah,the good
  masculine plural absolute,טוֹבִים,tovim,good
  masculine plural contruct,טוֹבֵי,tove,good
  mascuuline plural determined,הַטּוֹבִים,hattovim,the good
  feminine plural absolute,טוֹבוֹת,tovoth,good
  feminine plural construct,טוֹבוֹת,tovoth,good
  feminine plural determined,הַטּוֹבוֹת,hattovoth,the good

Function
--------

.. _adjective-attributive:

Attributive
~~~~~~~~~~~

An attributive adjective is an adjective that describes a noun. This is
the most common use of adjectives in Biblical Hebrew. In almost all
instances, attributive adjectives immediately follow the noun that they
describe and have the same form. Thus, if the noun is masculine, the
adjective is also masculine; if the noun is singular, the adjective is
also singular; if the noun is
:ref:`state_determined`,
the adjective is also definite; and so on.

.. note:: When :ref:`adjective_cardinal_number` and
          :ref:`adjective_ordinal_number` numbers are used as attributive
          adjectives, they sometimes come *before* the noun they describe
          instead of *after* the noun.

-  1SA 18:17

.. csv-table::

  בִתִּ֨י הַגְּדוֹלָ֤ה
  vitti **haggedolah**
  my-daughter **the-old**
  my **older** daughter

-  JOS 10:2

.. csv-table::

  כִּ֣י עִ֤יר **גְּדוֹלָה֙** גִּבְע֔וֹן
  
  for city **great** Gibeon
  because Gibeon was a **large** city

.. _adjective-predicative:

Predicative
~~~~~~~~~~~

A predicative adjective is an adjective that describes a noun using a
:ref:`verb-linking-verbs`.
Often the linking verb is not present in the Hebrew text and must be
supplied when translating into English. Like attributive adjectives,
predicative adjectives usually have the same form as the noun they
describe in both gender (masculine/feminine) and number
(singular/plural). Unlike attributive adjectives, however, a predicative
adjective can be indefinite even if it describes a definite noun.

.. note:: Sometimes, predicative adjectives and attributive adjectives look
          identical and must be distinguished based only on the context.

-  2SA 14:20

.. csv-table::

  וַאדֹנִ֣י חָכָ֗ם
  wadoni **hakham**
  And-my-lord **wise**
  My master is **wise**

-  2KI 20:19

.. csv-table::

  טֹ֥וב דְּבַר־יְהוָ֖ה אֲשֶׁ֣ר דִּבַּ֑רְתָּ
  **towv** devar-yehwah 'asher dibbarta
  **Good** word-of\_Yahweh that you-spoke.
  The word of Yahweh that you have spoken is **good**.

.. _adjective-substantive:

Substantive
~~~~~~~~~~~

A substantive adjective is an adjective that functions as a noun in the
sentence. This is a common occurrence in Biblical Hebrew.

-  PSA 3:2

.. csv-table::

  רַ֝בִּ֗ים קָמִ֥ים עָלָֽי
  **rabbim** qamim 'alay
  **many** are-rising-up against-me
  **many people** are rising up against me

-  ISA 30:12

.. csv-table::

  לָכֵ֗ן כֹּ֤ה אָמַר֙ **קְד֣וֹשׁ** יִשְׂרָאֵ֔ל
  
  Therefore thus he-says **holy-of** Israel
  "Therefore the **Holy One** of Israel says,"

Adverbial
~~~~~~~~~

An adverbial adjective is an adjective that functions as an adverb,
meaning that it describes a verb instead of a noun. This is a rare
occurrence in Biblical Hebrew.

-  JOS 21:10

.. csv-table::

  כִּ֥י לָהֶ֛ם הָיָ֥ה הַגּוֹרָ֖ל רִיאשֹׁנָֽה
  
  for to-them it-was the-lot **first**
  For the **first** casting of lots had fallen to them.

Other Uses
~~~~~~~~~~

Comparative
^^^^^^^^^^^

In Biblical Hebrew, adjectives are often used with either the
preposition מִן ("from") or the phrase מִכֹּל ("from all") to express a
comparison between two or more items.

-  JDG 14:18

.. csv-table::

  מַה־\ **מָּת֣וֹק** מִדְּבַ֔שׁ וּמֶ֥ה **עַ֖ז** מֵאֲרִ֑י
  mah-\ **mmathoq** middevash umeh **'az** me'ari
  What\_\ **sweet** than-honey and-what **strong** from-lion
  "What is **sweeter** than honey, and what is **stronger** than a lion"

-  GEN 3:1

.. csv-table::

  וְהַנָּחָשׁ֙ הָיָ֣ה **עָר֔וּם מִכֹּל֙** חַיַּ֣ת הַשָּׂדֶ֔ה
  wehannahash hayah **'arum mikkol** hayyath hassadeh
  And-the-serpent was **shrewd from-all** beings-of the-field
  Now the serpent was **more shrewd than any other** beast of the field

Intensive
^^^^^^^^^

In Biblical Hebrew, the meaning of an adjective can be strengthened by
pairing it either with the word מְאֹד ("very") or with the phrase
לֵאלֹהִים ("to God").

-  GEN 1:31

.. csv-table::

  וְהִנֵּה־ט֖וֹב מְאֹ֑ד
  wehinneh-\ **tov me'od**
  And-behold\_\ **good very**
  "Behold, it was **very good**"

-  JON 3:3

.. csv-table::

  עִיר־גְּדוֹלָה֙ לֵֽאלֹהִ֔ים
  'ir-**gedolah lelohim**
  city\_\ **great to-God**
  a **very large** city

.. _adjective-superlative:

Superlative
^^^^^^^^^^^

Biblical Hebrew utilizes different ways to strengthen an adjective to
its greatest degree ("the smallest", "the greatest", etc.). Usually, the
superlative meaning of an adjective must be determined from the context.

-  1SA 16:11 –– adjective with the :ref:`preposition_definite_article`

.. csv-table::

  עֹ֚וד שָׁאַ֣ר הַקָּטָ֔ן
  'owd sha'ar **haqqatan**
  Still remains **the-young**
  There remains yet **the youngest**

-  MIC 7:4 –– adjective with a :ref:`suffix_pronominal`

.. csv-table::

  טוֹבָ֣ם כְּחֵ֔דֶק
  **tovam** kehedeq
  **good-their** like-brier
  **the best of them** is like a brier

-  SNG 1:8 –– adjective with a prepositional phrase

.. csv-table::

  הַיָּפָ֖ה בַּנָּשִׁ֑ים
  **hayyafah** bannashim
  **the-fair** among-women
  **the fairest** among women
