:github_url: https://git.door43.org/Door43/en_uhg/src/branch/master/content/particle_definite_article.rst

.. _particle_definite_article:

Particle Definite Article
=========================

Summary
-------

In Biblical Hebrew, the definite article (the prefix הַ) is added to a
word to make that word definite, i.e. in the *determined* state.

Article
-------

The use of the definite article is one of the ways that a word can be
made definite (i.e. in the :ref:`state_determined`)
in Biblical Hebrew. The definite article is not an independent word but
the prefix הַ (he with pathah), usually accompanied by a daghesh in the
next consonant. The definite article normally takes the pathah vowel,
but that vowel can shift (usually either lengthening to qamets or
shortening to seghol) depending on the placement of the accent and/or
gutteral consonants within the word.

The definite article does not have any specific function other than to
indicate that a particular word is in the determined state. The definite
article is usually translated as "the" in English. However, the rules
governing the "definiteness" of words vary in different languages, so
this particle must always be translated in accordance with the
convention(s) of each individual language.

NOTE: The definite article is only rarely found in Hebrew poetry. This
may have been done for the sake of rhythmic meter, since the article
almost always adds a syllable to a word. In Hebrew poetry, words can be
in the determined state even without the definite article. Therefore, in
Hebrew poetry, often the state (construct, absolute, or determined) of a
particular word must be determined by the context.

Standard form
-------------

With pathah vowel, and daghesh in the following consonant
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

סוּס

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

sus

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(a) horse

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       </tr>

    .. raw:: html

       <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    noun + definite article

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    הַסּוּס

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    hassus

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    the horse

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       </tr>

    .. raw:: html

       </tbody>

    .. raw:: html

       </table>

Alternate forms
---------------

With pathah vowel, no daghesh in gutteral consonant
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

חֹשֶׁק

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

hosheq

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

darkness

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun + definite article

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

הַחֹשֶׁק

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

hahosheq

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

the darkness

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

Vowel lengthens to qamets, no daghesh in gutteral consonant
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

אִישׁ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

'ish

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(a) man

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       </tr>

    .. raw:: html

       <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    noun + definite article

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    הָאִישׁ

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    ha'ish

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       <td>

    the man

    .. raw:: html

       </td>

    .. raw:: html

       </tr>

    .. raw:: html

       </tbody>

    .. raw:: html

       </table>

Vowel shortens to seghol, no daghesh in gutteral consonant
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

עָפָר

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

'afar

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

dust

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun + definite article

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

הֶעָפָר

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

he'afar

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

the dust

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

--------------

Deleted content:

The definite article can be attached to a common
:ref:`noun_common`,
an
:ref:`adjective`,
a :ref:`pronoun_demonstrative`,
or a
:ref:`participle`.

**Some examples of a change of the initial vowel to a qamets**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

אֶרֶץ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

'erets

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

earth

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun + definite article

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

הָאָרֶץ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

ha'arets

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

the earth

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

אֲרוֹן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

'aron

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

ark

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun + definite article

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

הָאָרוֹן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

ha'aron

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

the ark

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

עַם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

'am

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

people

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

noun + definite article

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

הָעָם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

ha'am

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

the people

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>
