content/pronoun_demonstrative.rst, before:

:github_url: https://git.door43.org/Door43/en_uhg/src/branch/master/content/pronoun_demonstrative.rst

.. _pronoun_demonstrative:

Pronoun Demonstrative
=====================

Summary
-------

Demonstrative pronouns replace or qualify nouns. "This," "that,"
"these," and "those" are common translations.

Article
-------

A demonstrative pronoun is a
:ref:`pronoun`
that refers to a
:ref:`noun`
or noun phrase that is presumed familiar to the reader or listener. For
example if it has been mentioned earlier in the sentence. It can also
function as a demonstrative
:ref:`adjective`,
in which case it commonly follows the noun, even if in English it always
precedes the noun.

Demonstrative pronouns are also one of the types of words that are
:ref:`state_determined-demonstrative-pronouns`,
even if they can additionally have a :ref:`particle_definite_article`.

Form
----

In English there are four common demonstrative pronouns that distinguish
between
:ref:`number_singular`
and
:ref:`number_plural`,
as well as near and distant: this, these, that, those. In Hebrew the
same distinctions are made, and on top of that there are
:ref:`gender_masculine`
and
:ref:`gender_feminine`
forms for each of those (with the exception of the plural, near
demonstratives which has a
`common <https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/gender_common/01.md>`__
form). Their gender and number are based on the word they replace,
modify, or refer to.

Paradigm
~~~~~~~~

.. csv-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  Parsing,Hebrew,Transliteration,Gloss
  masculine singular near,(or זֶה (זֹה / זֹו,zeh (or zow / zoh),this
  feminine singular near,זֹאת,zoth,this
  masculine singular far,הוּא,hu,that
  feminine singular far,הִיא,hi,that
  common plural near,אֵלֶּה,'elleh,these
  masculine plural far,הֵם / הֵמָּה,hemmah / hem,those
  feminine plural far,הֵנָּה,hennah,those

Note, the "far" forms are identical to the :ref:`pronoun_personal`,
so context will decide how to understand that word.

Function
--------

Replaces a person
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First / second mention
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

זֶה is used for items when they are first mentioned.

הוּא is used for items that have already been mentioned.

.. csv-table:: Example: JDG 7:4

  "וְהָיָ֡ה אֲשֶׁר֩ אֹמַ֨ר אֵלֶ֜יךָ \ **זֶ֣ה** ׀ יֵלֵ֣ךְ
     אִתָּ֗ךְ \ **ה֚וּא** יֵלֵ֣ךְ אִתָּ֔ךְ"
  "wehayah 'asher 'omar 'eleykha **zeh** yelekh 'ittakh **hu** yelekh
     'ittakh"
  "And-it-is that I-will-say to-you **this** will-go with-you **that**
     will-go with-you"
  "If I say to you, ""**This one** will go with you,"" **he** will go with
     you"

   הוּא here can be understood and translated as either a demonstrative
   pronoun, or a personal pronoun.

Reciprocal
^^^^^^^^^^

Demonstrative pronouns can be used to distinguish individuals within a
group interacting with each other.

.. csv-table:: Example: ISA 6:3

  וְקָרָ֨א \ **זֶ֤ה** אֶל־זֶה֙
  weqara **zeh** 'el-**zeh**
  And-it-called **this** to\_\ **this**
  And **each one** called to **another**

Qualifies a person
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a demonstrative pronoun qualifies a person, it is for emphasis or
to draw attention to the presence of that person.

.. csv-table:: Example: GEN 27:21

  הַֽאַתָּ֥ה \ **זֶ֛ה** בְּנִ֥י
  ha'attah **zeh** beni
  the-you **this** my-son
  you are my **true** son

.. csv-table:: Example: 1KI 19:5

  וְהִנֵּֽה־\ **זֶ֤ה** מַלְאָךְ֙
  wehinneh-\ **zeh** mal'akh
  And-behold **this** angel
  Suddenly an angel

Qualifies a noun
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Predicative
^^^^^^^^^^^

The demonstrative pronoun usually precedes the noun if it is
predicative. The preceding demonstrative pronoun does not have the
definite article, but the noun does.

.. csv-table:: Example: JDG 4:14

  זֶ֤ה הַיּוֹם֙
  **zeh** hayyom
  **this** the-day
  **this** is the day

:ref:`adjective-attributive`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When it is used as an attributive adjective, the demonstrative pronoun
often follows the noun, and both the noun and adjective can have a
:ref:`particle_definite_article`.

.. csv-table:: Example: ISA 18:23

  הַדְּבָרִ֖ים הָאֵ֑לֶּה
  haddevarim **ha'elleh**
  the-words **the-these**
  **these** words

Sometimes neither the noun nor the demonstrative pronoun have a definite
article.

.. csv-table:: Example: JOS 2:20

  דְּבָרֵ֣נוּ זֶ֑ה
  devarenu **zeh**
  our-business **this**
  **this** business of ours

.. _pronoun_demonstrative-function-like-a-relative-pronoun:

Function like a :ref:`pronoun_relative`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table:: Example: PSA 74:2

  הַר־צִ֝יֹּ֗ון **זֶ֤ה**\ ׀ שָׁכַ֬נְתָּ בֹּֽו׃
  har-tsiyyown **zeh** shakhanta bow
  Mount\_Zion **this** you-lived in-it.
  "Mount Zion, **where** you live."

.. csv-table:: Example: PSA 104:26

  לִ֝וְיָתָ֗ן \ **זֶֽה**\ ־יָצַ֥רְתָּ
  liwyathan **zeh**-yatsarta
  Leviathan **this**\ \_you-formed
  "Leviathan, **which** you formed"

Redundant
^^^^^^^^^

The demonstrative pronoun does not always need to be translated.

.. csv-table:: Example: GEN 47:6

  אֶ֤רֶץ מִצְרַ֙יִם֙ לְפָנֶ֣יךָ הִ֔וא
  'erets mitsrayim lefaneykha **hiw**
  Land-of Egypt to-your-face **that**
  The land of Egypt is before you

   Perhaps this can be translated as "This land of Egypt before you".

Commit message:

Adds titles to remaining tables
Also fixes #324

content/pronoun_demonstrative.rst, after:

:github_url: https://git.door43.org/Door43/en_uhg/src/branch/master/content/pronoun_demonstrative.rst

.. _pronoun_demonstrative:

Pronoun Demonstrative
=====================

Summary
-------

Demonstrative pronouns replace or qualify nouns. "This," "that,"
"these," and "those" are common translations.

Article
-------

A demonstrative pronoun is a
:ref:`pronoun`
that refers to a
:ref:`noun`
or noun phrase that is presumed familiar to the reader or listener. For
example if it has been mentioned earlier in the sentence. It can also
function as a demonstrative
:ref:`adjective`,
in which case it commonly follows the noun, even if in English it always
precedes the noun.

Demonstrative pronouns are also one of the types of words that are
:ref:`state_determined-demonstrative-pronouns`,
even if they can additionally have a :ref:`particle_definite_article`.

Form
----

In English there are four common demonstrative pronouns that distinguish
between
:ref:`number_singular`
and
:ref:`number_plural`,
as well as near and distant: this, these, that, those. In Hebrew the
same distinctions are made, and on top of that there are
:ref:`gender_masculine`
and
:ref:`gender_feminine`
forms for each of those (with the exception of the plural, near
demonstratives which has a
`common <https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/gender_common/01.md>`__
form). Their gender and number are based on the word they replace,
modify, or refer to.

Paradigm
~~~~~~~~

.. csv-table:: Demonstrative Pronoun Paradigm
  :header-rows: 1

  Parsing,Hebrew,Transliteration,Gloss
  masculine singular near,(or זֶה (זֹה / זֹו,zeh (or zow / zoh),this
  feminine singular near,זֹאת,zoth,this
  masculine singular far,הוּא,hu,that
  feminine singular far,הִיא,hi,that
  common plural near,אֵלֶּה,'elleh,these
  masculine plural far,הֵם / הֵמָּה,hemmah / hem,those
  feminine plural far,הֵנָּה,hennah,those

Note, the "far" forms are identical to the :ref:`pronoun_personal`,
so context will decide how to understand that word.

Function
--------

Replaces a person
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First / second mention
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

זֶה is used for items when they are first mentioned.

הוּא is used for items that have already been mentioned.

.. csv-table:: Example: JDG 7:4

  "וְהָיָ֡ה אֲשֶׁר֩ אֹמַ֨ר אֵלֶ֜יךָ \ **זֶ֣ה** ׀ יֵלֵ֣ךְ
     אִתָּ֗ךְ \ **ה֚וּא** יֵלֵ֣ךְ אִתָּ֔ךְ"
  "wehayah 'asher 'omar 'eleykha **zeh** yelekh 'ittakh **hu** yelekh
     'ittakh"
  "And-it-is that I-will-say to-you **this** will-go with-you **that**
     will-go with-you"
  "If I say to you, ""**This one** will go with you,"" **he** will go with
     you"

   הוּא here can be understood and translated as either a demonstrative
   pronoun, or a personal pronoun.

Reciprocal
^^^^^^^^^^

Demonstrative pronouns can be used to distinguish individuals within a
group interacting with each other.

.. csv-table:: Example: ISA 6:3

  וְקָרָ֨א \ **זֶ֤ה** אֶל־זֶה֙
  weqara **zeh** 'el-**zeh**
  And-it-called **this** to\_\ **this**
  And **each one** called to **another**

Qualifies a person
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a demonstrative pronoun qualifies a person, it is for emphasis or
to draw attention to the presence of that person.

.. csv-table:: Example: GEN 27:21

  הַֽאַתָּ֥ה \ **זֶ֛ה** בְּנִ֥י
  ha'attah **zeh** beni
  the-you **this** my-son
  you are my **true** son

.. csv-table:: Example: 1KI 19:5

  וְהִנֵּֽה־\ **זֶ֤ה** מַלְאָךְ֙
  wehinneh-\ **zeh** mal'akh
  And-behold **this** angel
  Suddenly an angel

Qualifies a noun
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Predicative
^^^^^^^^^^^

The demonstrative pronoun usually precedes the noun if it is
predicative. The preceding demonstrative pronoun does not have the
definite article, but the noun does.

.. csv-table:: Example: JDG 4:14

  זֶ֤ה הַיּוֹם֙
  **zeh** hayyom
  **this** the-day
  **this** is the day

:ref:`adjective-attributive`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When it is used as an attributive adjective, the demonstrative pronoun
often follows the noun, and both the noun and adjective can have a
:ref:`particle_definite_article`.

.. csv-table:: Example: ISA 18:23

  הַדְּבָרִ֖ים הָאֵ֑לֶּה
  haddevarim **ha'elleh**
  the-words **the-these**
  **these** words

Sometimes neither the noun nor the demonstrative pronoun have a definite
article.

.. csv-table:: Example: JOS 2:20

  דְּבָרֵ֣נוּ זֶ֑ה
  devarenu **zeh**
  our-business **this**
  **this** business of ours

.. _pronoun_demonstrative-function-like-a-relative-pronoun:

Function like a :ref:`pronoun_relative`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table:: Example: PSA 74:2

  הַר־צִ֝יֹּ֗ון **זֶ֤ה**\ ׀ שָׁכַ֬נְתָּ בֹּֽו׃
  har-tsiyyown **zeh** shakhanta bow
  Mount\_Zion **this** you-lived in-it.
  "Mount Zion, **where** you live."

.. csv-table:: Example: PSA 104:26

  לִ֝וְיָתָ֗ן \ **זֶֽה**\ ־יָצַ֥רְתָּ
  liwyathan **zeh**-yatsarta
  Leviathan **this**\ \_you-formed
  "Leviathan, **which** you formed"

Redundant
^^^^^^^^^

The demonstrative pronoun does not always need to be translated.

.. csv-table:: Example: GEN 47:6

  אֶ֤רֶץ מִצְרַ֙יִם֙ לְפָנֶ֣יךָ הִ֔וא
  'erets mitsrayim lefaneykha **hiw**
  Land-of Egypt to-your-face **that**
  The land of Egypt is before you

The above example may also be translated as "This land of Egypt before you".
