:github_url: https://git.door43.org/Door43/en_uhg/src/branch/master/content/verb_sequential_perfect.rst

.. _verb_sequential_perfect:

Verb Sequential Perfect
=======================

Summary
-------

A verb with sequential suffix conjugation functions generally like a
verb with *prefix conjugation*, but it also connects to some earlier
verb to form either a sequence of time or a sequence of thought.

Article
-------

The Sequential Suffix Conjugation looks very similar to the normal
:ref:`verb_perfect`,
but it is a separate verbal form and must be treated as such. The
Sequential Suffix Conjugation takes the same verbal endings as the
normal Suffix Conjugation but includes the
:ref:`conjunction`
*waw* (וְ "and") as a prefix. A Sequential Suffix Conjugation
:ref:`verb`
does not function like a normal Suffix Conjugation verb. Rather, it
functions more like an *`Prefix Conjugation <http://>`__* verb, but with
the added sense of being connected to an earlier verb to form a sequence
of time or a sequence of thought in narrative texts. In poetic texts
this verb form can be understood in a variety of other ways as well.
Sequential Suffix Conjugation verbs often appear in a series following a
clause with a Prefix Conjugation verb.

There is a difference between (1) the Sequential Suffix Conjugation, (2)
the :ref:`verb_perfect-perfect-copulative-perfect-with-a-conjunction`,
and (3) the normal Prefix Conjugation with the conjunction. (1) and (2)
have an identical form, including the vocalization, so the reader must
determine from the context which one is being used in any given
instance. (1) is also different than (3), although they can have similar
meanings. The Sequential Suffix Conjugation ((1) above) forms a sequence
with the verb in the clause before it, but the normal Prefix Conjugation
((3) above) with the conjunction does not.

Form
----

**Qal**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקָטַל

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqatal

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) he will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקָטְלָה

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqatlah

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) she will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקָטַלְתָּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqatalta

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקָטַלְתְּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqatalt

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common singular first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקָטַלְתִּי

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqatalti

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) I will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקָטְלוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqatlu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) they will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וּקְטַלְתֶּם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

uqetaltem

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וּקְטַלְתֶּן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

uqetalten

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקָטַלְנוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqatalnu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) we will kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

**Niphal**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטַל

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtal

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) he will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטְלָה

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtelah

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) she will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטַלְתָּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtalta

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטַלְתְּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtalt

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common singular first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטַלְתִּי

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtalti

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) I will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטְלוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtelu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) they will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטַלְתֶּם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtaltem

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטַלְתֶּן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtalten

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְנִקְטַלְתֶּנוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weniqtaltenu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) we will be killed

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

**Hiphil**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטִיל

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtil

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) he will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטִילָה

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtilah

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) she will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטַלְתָּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtalta

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטַלְתְּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtalt

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common singular first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטַלְתִּי

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtalti

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) I will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטִילוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtilu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) they will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטַלְתֶּם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtaltem

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטַלְתֶּן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtalten

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִקְטַלְנוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehiqtalnu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) we will cause to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

**Hophal**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטַל

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtal

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) he will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטְלָה

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtelah

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) she will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטַלְתָּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtalta

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטַלְתְּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtalt

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common singular first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטַלְתִּי

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtalti

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) I will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטְלוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtelu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) they will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטַלְתֶּם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtaltem

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטַלְתֶּן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtalten

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהָקְטַלְנוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehoqtalnu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) we will be caused to kill

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

**Piel**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטֵּל / וְקִטַּל

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittel / weqittal

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) he will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטְּלָה

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittelah

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) she will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטַּלְתָּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittalta

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטַּלְתְּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittalt

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common singular first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטַּלְתִּי

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittalti

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) I will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטְּלוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittelu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) they will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטַּלְתֶּם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittaltem

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטַּלְתֶּן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittalten

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקִטַּלְנוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

weqittalnu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) we will slaughter

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

**Pual**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטַּל

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttal

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) he will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטְּלָה

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttelah

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) she will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטַּלְתָּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttalta

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטַּלְתְּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttalt

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common singular first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטַּלְתִּי

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttalti

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) I will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטְּלוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttelu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) they will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטַּלְתֶּם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttaltem

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטַּלְתֶּן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttalten

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְקֻטַּלְנוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wequttalnu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) we will be slaughtered

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

**Hithpael**

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Parsing

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Hebrew

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Transliteration

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   <th>

Gloss

.. raw:: html

   </th>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטֵּל

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattal

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) he will kill himself

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטְּלָה

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattelah

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) she will kill herself

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטַּלְתָּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattalta

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill yourself

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine singular second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטַּלְתְּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattalt

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill yourself

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common singular first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטַּלְתִּי

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattalti

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) I will kill myself

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural third person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטְּלוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattelu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) they will kill themselves

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

masculine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטַּלְתֶּם

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattaltem

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill yourselves

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

feminine plural second person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטַּלְתֶּן

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattalten

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) you will kill yourselves

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even" align="center">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

common plural first person

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וְהִתְקַטַּלְנוּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wehithqattalnu

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

(and) we will kill ourselves

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

Function
--------

The sequential suffix conjugation can indicate any one of many different
kinds of actions:

Incomplete actions, in present or future time
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  JER 43:12

   .. raw:: html

      <table border="1" class="docutils">

   .. raw:: html

      <colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <col width="100%" />

   .. raw:: html

      </colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <tbody valign="top">

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd" align="right">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   וְהִצַּ֣תִּי אֵ֗שׁ בְּבָתֵּי֙ אֱלֹהֵ֣י מִצְרַ֔יִם

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   **wehitsatti** 'esh bevottey 'elohe mitsrayim

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   **and-I-will-kindle** fire in-houses-of gods-of Egypt

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   **Then I will light** a fire in the temples of Egypt's gods.

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      </tbody>

   .. raw:: html

      </table>

In poetry it can take on a variety of functions, here it clearly
continues the previous :ref:`verb_imperfect`.
It signals a :ref:`verb_imperfect-frequentive-or-durative-actions`
that is not (never) completed. \* PSA 90:6

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <colgroup>

.. raw:: html

   <col width="100%" />

.. raw:: html

   </colgroup>

.. raw:: html

   <tbody valign="top">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="right">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

בַּ֭בֹּקֶר יָצִ֣יץ **וְחָלָ֑ף** לָ֝עֶ֗רֶב יְמוֹלֵ֥ל **וְיָבֵֽשׁ**\ ׃

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

babboqer yatsits **wehalaf** la'erev yemolel **weyavesh**

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

in-the-morning it-blossoms **and-it-renews** at-the-evening it-withers
**and-it-dries**

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

In the morning it blooms **and grows up**; in the evening it withers
**and dries up**.

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

Frequentive or durative actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These may be in past time, present time, future time, or without a
specified timeframe. \* 1SA 5:7

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <colgroup>

.. raw:: html

   <col width="100%" />

.. raw:: html

   </colgroup>

.. raw:: html

   <tbody valign="top">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="right">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

וַיִּרְא֥וּ אַנְשֵֽׁי־אַשְׁדּ֖וֹד כִּֽי־כֵ֑ן וְאָמְר֗וּ

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

wayyir'u 'anshe-'ashdod ki-khen **we'omru**

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

and-they-saw men-of\_Ashdod that\_thus **and-they-were-saying**

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

When the men of Ashdod realized what was happening, **they said**

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

Direct or indirect commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  2SA 7:5 – Sequential suffix conjugation translated with
   :ref:`verb_imperative`
   meaning

   .. raw:: html

      <table border="1" class="docutils">

   .. raw:: html

      <colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <col width="100%" />

   .. raw:: html

      </colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <tbody valign="top">

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd" align="right">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   לֵ֤ךְ **וְאָֽמַרְתָּ֙** אֶל־עַבְדִּ֣י אֶל־דָּוִ֔ד

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   lekh **we'amarta** 'el-'avdi 'el-dawid

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   go **and-say** to\_my-servant to\_David

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   Go **and tell** David my servant

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      </tbody>

   .. raw:: html

      </table>

-  GEN 31:44 – Sequential suffix conjugation translated with
   :ref:`verb_jussive`
   meaning

   .. raw:: html

      <table border="1" class="docutils">

   .. raw:: html

      <colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <col width="100%" />

   .. raw:: html

      </colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <tbody valign="top">

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd" align="right">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   וְהָיָ֥ה לְעֵ֖ד בֵּינִ֥י וּבֵינֶֽךָ

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   **wehayah** le'ed beni uvenekha

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   **and-let-it-be** for-a-witness between-me and-between-you

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   **and let it be** for a witness between you and me.

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      </tbody>

   .. raw:: html

      </table>

Imaginary, possible, or conditional actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  EXO 21:20

   .. raw:: html

      <table border="1" class="docutils">

   .. raw:: html

      <colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <col width="100%" />

   .. raw:: html

      </colgroup>

   .. raw:: html

      <tbody valign="top">

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd" align="right">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   וְכִֽי־יַכֶּה֩ אִ֨ישׁ אֶת־עַבְדּ֜וֹ א֤וֹ אֶת־אֲמָתוֹ֙ בַּשֵּׁ֔בֶט
   וּמֵ֖ת

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   wekhi-yakkeh 'ish 'eth-'avdo 'o 'eth-'amatho bashevet **umeth**

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-odd">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   and-if\_he-strikes man [dir.obj]\_his-servant or
   [dir.obj]\_his-female-servant with-the-rod **and-he-dies**

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      <tr class="row-even">

   .. raw:: html

      <td>

   If a man hits his male servant or his female servant with a staff,
   **and if the servant dies**

   .. raw:: html

      </td>

   .. raw:: html

      </tr>

   .. raw:: html

      </tbody>

   .. raw:: html

      </table>

Actions of greater or lesser desirability
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These may include instructions, requests, permissions, invitations,
assurances, wishes, etc. \* RUT 2:7 – Sequential suffix conjugation
translated with cohortative meaning

.. raw:: html

   <table border="1" class="docutils">

.. raw:: html

   <colgroup>

.. raw:: html

   <col width="100%" />

.. raw:: html

   </colgroup>

.. raw:: html

   <tbody valign="top">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd" align="right">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

אֲלַקֳטָה־נָּא֙ **וְאָסַפְתִּ֣י** בָֽעֳמָרִ֔ים

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

'alaqotah-nna' **we'asafti** vo'omarim

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-odd">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

let-me-glean\_oh **and-let-me-gather** among-the-reapers

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="row-even">

.. raw:: html

   <td>

Please let me glean **and gather** after the reapers.

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </tbody>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

--------------

*Information in this article is taken from* Biblical Hebrew Reference
Grammar, *by van der Merwe, Naudé & Kroeze, p.168-171; and* Hebrew
Grammar, *by Gesenius, section 112.*
