# verb_jussive Article
The jussive form looks very similar to an imperfect form but functions in the sentence more like an imperative.  Jussive verbs usually appear in 3rd person forms.  [Similarly, imperatives appear only in 2nd person forms, and cohortatives appear only in 1st person forms.]  A jussive verb does not carry the full force of a command ("He *must* do this!"), but it conveys a stronger meaning than a simple suggestion or statement of possibilty ("He *could* do this.").  The meaning is somewhere in the middle.  In English, a jussive is often translated with the helping verb "may" or "let," depending on the context ("*May* he do this!" or "*Let* him do this!").  Thus, the jussive verb functions as an indirect command; the reader must examine the context to determine the strength of desirability being expressed in each specific instance.

Biblical Hebrew does not use the imperative form to express negative commands.  Rather, negative commands are always expressed using either the imperfect form or the jussive form.  In cases where the jussive form is being used to express a negative command, the jussive will appear in a 2nd person form rather than a 3rd person form.  When used in this way, the jussive form takes the negation particle אַל in nearly all instances.


The jussive form can indicate any of the following kinds of actions:

#### Indirect commands

* GEN 1:14
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>יְהִ֤י מְאֹרֹת֙ בִּרְקִ֣יעַ הַשָּׁמַ֔יִם</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>yehi me'orot birkia hashamayim</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>*Let there be* luminaries in the expanse of the heavens</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>*Let there be* lights in the sky</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Direct negative commands (2nd person forms with negation particle אַל)

* JOB 41:8
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>זְכֹ֥ר מִ֝לְחָמָ֗ה אַל־תּוֹסַֽף</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>zechor milchamah, al-tosaf</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>Remember the battle, *do not repeat!*</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>...you will remember the battle and *do it no more*.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Actions of greater or lesser desirability

* GEN 24:51
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וּתְהִ֤י אִשָּׁה֙ לְבֶן־אֲדֹנֶ֔יךָ</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>utehi ishah leven-'adoneicha</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>...and *let her be* wife to the son of your lord</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>...so *she may be* the wife of your master's son...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

* PSA 45:11
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וְיִתְאָ֣ו הַמֶּ֣לֶךְ יָפְיֵ֑ךְ</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>veyit'av hammelech yafeyech</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>...*let him desire* the king your beauty...</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>In this way the king *will desire* your beauty...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

* PSA 104:20
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>תָּֽשֶׁת־חֹ֭שֶׁךְ וִ֣יהִי לָ֑יְלָה</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>tashet-choshech vihi layelah</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>You bring darkness, and *let it be* night...</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>You make the darkness *of the night*...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



-----

*Information in this article is taken from* Biblical Hebrew Reference Grammar, *by van der Merwe, Naudé, and Kroeze, p.152-153; and* Hebrew Grammar, *by Gesenius, section 109.*