# stem Article

In Hebrew, all verbs have both a stem and a form. These two work together like two "layers", and each layer has different information about the verb.
There are seven main stems and several rare ones.

## Function
Here is a brief overview of the most common stems and their most common function:
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>Qal (simple aspect, active voice) – Niphal (simple aspect, passive voice)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>Piel (intensive aspect, active voice) – Pual (intensive aspect, passive voice)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>Hiphil (causative aspect, active voice) – Hophal (causative aspect, passive voice)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>Hithpael (intensive aspect, reflexive voice)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Take note, it is advised to always check both the dictionary entry for the particular stem and the context to get the exact nuance. Especially for the Hiphil, Hophal, and Hithpael stems, which are often not easy to guess from the meaning of the Qal.

## Form
This is a brief overview on how to quickly recognize the simplest forms of each stem:

#### Qal
The normal form of the verb, often has "a" sounds (qamets or patah).

#### Niphal
Adds "ni" (nun with hireq) to the beginning of the verb. If the form also adds a letter (like in the imperfect), the nun disappears and is causing the first radical consonant to double (with a dagesh forte).

#### Piel
Here the middle consonant of the verb is doubled (with a dagesh forte), and usually have a shewa or a hireq under the first consonant.

#### Pual
Also doubles the middle consonant and often has a qibbuts under the first consonant.

#### Hiphil
Often has "hi" (he with hireq) before the verb, or a patah under the letter that the form adds before the root.

#### Hophal
Also adds a he before the verb, as well as a qamets hatuf.

#### Hithpael
It adds "hit" (he with hireq and taw with shewa) before the verb, and puts a qamets or patah under the next consonant.

## Uncommon stems
Most of these stems occur only a few times in the Hebrew Bible. Their function is usually similar to one of the above stems, or a combination of two of them.
One simple rule that can help with a first guess as to its function is this: If it sounds similar to one of the seven common stems, it probably means something similar as well.

The uncommon stems are:
Hishtaphel - Hithpael - Hithpalpel - Hithpoel - Hithpolel - Hithpaal - Nithpael - Nithpalel - Nithpoel - Palel - Pealal - Pilel - Pilpel - Poal - Poel - Polal - Polel - Pulal - Qal Passive - Tiphil