# stem_piel Article

The Piel form is a verbal [stem](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/stem/02.md) formation in Biblical Hebrew, usually indicated by a daghesh in the middle consonsant of the [verb](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/verb/02.md). The Piel stem is the most flexible in its use of all the stem formations in Biblical Hebrew and has potential to express many different kinds of verbal action. These include simple action, intensive action, resultative action, causative action, or other kinds of action depending on the context and the specific verb. Some verbs express simple action in the Piel stem; some verbs express intensive action in the Piel stem; for some verbs, the Piel stem might express either simple action or intensive action, depending on the context; and so on.

NOTE: It is recommended to *always* consult a dictionary or lexicon for the specific meaning of the Piel stem for any verb, because the Piel stem has potential to express many different kinds of action for various verbs.

### Form

**[paradigm]**

### Function

The Piel stem can express any of the following kinds of verbal action:

#### Expresses simple action
In Biblical Hebrew, some verbs can express *different* meanings in *different* stem formations.  A good example is the Hebrew verb נָחַם.  In the [Niphal stem](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/stem_niphal/02.md), the verb נָחַם usually expresses either stative action ("to be sorry") or passive action ("to be comforted"). But in the Piel stem, the verb נָחַם expresses the simple action "to comfort". A dictionary or lexicon will indicate the different meanings for these verbs in the various stem formations.

* RUT 2:13
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>כִּ֣י נִֽחַמְתָּ֔נִי</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>ki nihamtani</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>for **you have comforted** me</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>...for **you have comforted** me,...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

On the other hand, some verbs express the *same* meaning in *multiple* stem formations. A good example is the verb אָסַף, which expresses the simple action "to gather" in both the [Qal stem](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/stem_qal/02.md) and the Piel stem. This also will be indicated by a dictionary or lexicon.

* JDG 19:18
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וְאֵ֣ין אִ֔ישׁ מְאַסֵּ֥ף אוֹתִ֖י הַבָּֽיְתָה</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>we'en 'ish me'assef 'othi habbayethah</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>and there is not a man **gathering** [direct object marker] me to the house</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>...but there is no one **who will take me** into his house.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses intensive action
Intensive action means that the verbal action is strengthened in some way. A good example is the Hebrew verb שָׁבַר. In the Qal stem, the verb שָׁבַר means "to break". But in the Piel stem, the verb שָׁבַר means "to shatter" or "to break in pieces". A dictionary or lexicon will indicate an intensive nuance in comparison with the meaning of the verb in other stem formations. 

* EXO 9:25
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>אֶת־מִזְבְּחֹתָם֙ תִּתֹּצ֔וּן וְאֶת־מַצֵּבֹתָ֖ם תְּשַׁבֵּר֑וּן</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>'eth-mizbehotham tittotsun we'eth-matsevotham teshabberun</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>their altars you break down and their pillars **you shatter**</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>...you must break down their altars, **smash** their stone pillars,...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses resultative action
Resultative action means that the primary focus of the verb is on the result of the verbal action. A good example is the verb שָׁלַח. In the Qal stem, the verb שָׁלַח means "to send" or "to stretch out". But in the Piel stem, the verb שָׁלַח means "to send away".  

* GEN 21:6
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וַיִּתֵּ֣ן ... וְאֶת־הַיֶּ֖לֶד וַֽיְשַׁלְּחֶ֑הָ</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>wayyitten ... we'eth-hayyeled wayeshalleheha</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>and he gave...and [direct object marker] the boy **and he sent her away**</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>He gave her the boy and **sent her away**.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses causative action
Causative action means that the subject of the verb is causing the object of the verb either to perform the verbal action ([dynamic verbs](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/verb/02.md#dynamic-or-action-verbs)) or to be in the state described by the verb ([stative verbs](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/verb/02.md#stative-or-non-action-verbs)). The Piel stem often serves this causative function with stative verbs. A good example is the verb מָלֵא. In the Qal stem, the verb מָלֵא expresses the stative action "to be full". But in the Piel stem, the verb מָלֵא expresses the causative action "to fill" (meaning, *to cause something to be full*). In English, causative action is expressed using the main verb "to cause" paired with the infinitive of the verbal action in view. In Biblical Hebrew, the causative nature of the verbal action is expressed by the Piel form of the verb itself with no additional verbal element. 

NOTE: Causative action must be expressed by a [transitive verb](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/verb/02.md#transitive-verbs), but non-causative action can be expressed by an [intransitive verb](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-uhg/src/master/content/verb/02.md#intransitive-verbs). Thus, a verb that is transitive in the Piel stem may be intransitive in the Qal and/or Niphal stems.

* JOB 38:12 –– expressing causative action with a dynamic verb
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>הְֽ֭מִיָּמֶיךָ צִוִּ֣יתָ בֹּ֑קֶר יִדַּ֖עְתָּ שַׁחַר מְקֹמֽוֹ</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>hemiyyameykha tsiwwitha boqer yidda'ta shahar meqomo</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>[interrogative particle] from your days you commanded morning **you make known** dawn his place</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>Have you ever, since your own days began, given orders to the morning to begin, and **caused** the morning dawn **to know** its place...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

* GEN 21:19 –– expressing causative action with a stative verb
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וַתֵּ֜לֶךְ וַתְּמַלֵּ֤א אֶת־הַחֵ֙מֶת֙ מַ֔יִם</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>wattelekh wattemalle 'eth-hahemeth mayim</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>and she went **and she filled** [direct object marker] the skin water</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>She went **and filled** the skin with water,...</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Expresses various other kinds of verbal action
Sometimes the Piel form is used in ways that do not follow the general conventions of the Piel stem as listed above. In these instances, the context demonstrates that none of the normal meanings of the verbal action make sense. A dictionary or lexicon will indicate the correct meaning in these rare instances of the Piel stem. 

* ISA 10:1 –– the Piel form of the verb כָּתַב ("to write") has uncertain meaning, but seems to indicate *a specific kind* of writing
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>ה֥וֹי הַחֹֽקְקִ֖ים חִקְקֵי־אָ֑וֶן וּֽמְכַתְּבִ֥ים עָמָ֖ל כִּתֵּֽבוּ׃</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>hoy hahoqeqim hiqqe-'awen umekhattevim 'amal kittevu</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>woe tho ones who enact laws of iniquity **and writers** oppression **they write**</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>Woe to those who enact unjust laws **and write** unfair **decrees**.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table> 

* NUM 19:19 –– the verb חָטָא means "to sin" in the Qal stem, but ִin the Piel stem it means "to purify"
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>וְחִטְּאוֹ֙ בַּיּ֣וֹם הַשְּׁבִיעִ֔י</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>wehitte'o bayyom hashevi'i</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>**and he purifies** him on the day the seventh</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>On the seventh day the unclean person **must purify** himself.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

* JOB 1:5 –– verbal action is the *opposite* of the normal meaning of the verb
<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr class="row-odd"><td>אוּלַי֙ חָטְא֣וּ בָנַ֔י וּבֵרֲכ֥וּ אֱלֹהִ֖ים בִּלְבָבָ֑ם</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>'ulay hot'u vanay uverakhu 'elohim bilvavam</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td>perhaps they have sinned my sons **and they have blessed** God in their hearts</td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td>Perhaps my children have sinned **and cursed** God in their hearts.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>